# LowMachNumberShocks
Scripts required to generate Figures and model data for the paper "The Structure and Kinetic Ion Behavior of Low Mach Number Shocks" by D. B. Graham & Yu. V. Khotyaintsev. 
https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09552

# Abstract
Low Mach number collisionless shocks are routinely observed in the solar wind and upstream of planetary bodies. However, most in situ observations have lacked the necessary temporal resolution to directly study the kinetic behavior of ions across these shocks. We investigate a series of five low Mach number bow shock crossings observed by the Magnetospheric Multiscale (MMS) mission. The five shocks had comparable Mach numbers, but varying shock-normal angles ($66^{\circ} \lesssim \theta_{Bn} \lesssim 89^{\circ}$) and ramp widths ($5~\mathrm{km} \lesssim l \lesssim 100~\mathrm{km}$). The shock width is shown to be crucial in determining the fraction of protons reflected and energized by the shock, with proton reflection increasing with decreasing shock width. As the shock width increases proton reflection is arrested entirely. For nearly perpendicular shocks, reflected protons exhibit quasi-periodic structures, which persist far downstream of the shock. As the shock-normal angle becomes more oblique these periodic proton structures broaden to form an energetic halo population. Periodic fluctuations in the magnetic field downstream of the shocks are generated by fluctuations in dynamic pressure of alpha particles, which are decelerated by the cross-shock potential and subsequently undergo gyrophase bunching. These results demonstrate that complex kinetic-scale ion dynamics occur in low Mach number shocks, which depend significantly on the shock profile. 

# Scripts
The irfu-matlab software package (https://github.com/irfu/irfu-matlab) is required for the scripts performing analysis on MMS data.


